[Music]
welcome to another episode 7 min and
marketing with ham my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and the sales
enablement in seven minutes at a time
Andy found the UK send me a LinkedIn
messaging she said hey Pam I've been
following you on Twitter for a little
while
thank you Andy and having recently heard
about your marketing book podcast so I
did reach out as a sales enablement is a
big problem right now so where to start
actually several people wrote me about
this question since I published by
booking October 2018 giving that sales
enablement efforts are different from
company to company let me address this
based on three different roles of a
marketing professionals marketers as an
individual contributor marketer as a
marketing director with a small team and
marketer as a VP of Marketing okay so as
an individual contributor say if you
want to take the initiative to support
sales the best way to start is to
clearly articulate your own roles and
responsibilities are you doing email
marketing are you managing social media
channels are you a content creator or if
you are wearing multiple hats what are
they and what do you do so identify that
and be very specific next talk to your
sales team understand your challenges
and needs when you open that in Doris
box they will tell you they need many
many things that's fine you need to
categorize and prioritize their requests
then identify the items that you can
help them with in the context of your
own roles and responsibilities does that
make sense
that's one way to start its a bottom-up
approach another way is to internalize
their needs create a formal request with
the solid recommendations on what you
plan to do after your discovery and the
research present that
your management seek their support and
get approval and the funding before you
start that's still bottom-up but it's
more formal approach so that's one way
to do it what about if you are marketing
director if you are marketing director
you likely have a team and a budget in
place you probably have a plan unlike
you leverage your team and a budget to
achieve your marketing objectives start
having conversation with your sales
counterpart and understand your
challenges to see if you can address
some of them with your current plan
sometimes there is low-hanging fruit
such as revising select marketing
content for sales needs or sharing
messaging framework or even helping with
the onboarding training again the key is
to incorporate what you can do as a part
of your plan deliverables the best time
to do that is add the company's annual
planning cycle get a fresh star and have
a conversation as a part of the physical
year planning all right what if you are
VP of Marketing well that's fantastic
the ideal way to start sales enablement
is top-down as a VP of Marketing you
have the authority and the power to role
model by initiating the collaboration
with a VP of Sales obviously you have
your marketing plan initiatives for the
gear so does the sales team understand
the sales plan and achim Tara tips for
the year identify the areas that
marketing can add value if you are
budget and a resource-constrained start
with several small initiatives or even
ask the budget from the sales team why
not get the VP of Sales buy-in and
identified team members from both sides
to form a task force or virtual team to
get things done giving that many small
projects start with some fund of task
force and request timely updates from
the team to keep that momentum going
like I said the best way to star sales
enablement synergy is to start at
the top senior management's commitment
goes a long way so if you think about it
there is a consistent take away from my
recommendation as individual contributor
as the marketing director and as a VP of
Marketing what I'm trying to say is they
are consistent approach that I'm
suggesting you need to know what you are
doing first we just know yourself you
need to seek understanding sales
challenges and hem point which is to
know your sales team identify their
challenges that you can address which is
know what you can do in the context of
your roles and responsibilities or your
job scope then map that into your
overall plan deliverable which is create
a plan that you can execute so that's
how I would start Andy I hope that I
answer your question if you are in a
specific marketing role please let me
know I can explain further what you can
do okay you know where to find me if you
have any marketing questions all right
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook email you name
it again if you find this podcast useful
please share your comments in iTunes
keep hustling it's my friends you've got
this
[Music]